## Git and GitHub Basics

### Describe version control

A program that tracks changes to a collection of files.
- Goal 1: Easily recall earlier versions of individual files or of the entire project.
- Goal 2: Allow several team members to work on a project, even on the same files, at the same time without affecting each other's work.
- Software Configuration Management (SCM) system is another name for VCS.

### Define distributed version control

The project's complete history is stored both on the client and on the server.
- Files can be edited without a network connection, checked locally, and then synced with the server when a connection becomes available.

### Describe Git

A fast, versatile, highly scalable, free, open-source VCS that multiple developers and other contributors can use to work on a project.

### Describe GitHub

A cloud platform that uses Git as its core technology.
Features of GitHub:
- Issues
- Discussions
- Pull requests
- Notifications
- Labels
- Actions
- Forks
- Projects

### Explain the difference between Git and GitHub

Git is the VCS binary and GitHub is the cloud platform that stores repositories and offers additional SaaS tools.
Git lets you work with one or more local branches and push changes to a remote repository. GitHub acts as the remote repository, which is accessed through a website or command-line tools.

### Describe a GitHub repository

The directory, located at the top level of a working tree, where Git keeps all the history and metadata for a project.
- Contains all of your project's file and each file's revision history.

### Describe a commit

Making changes that were made available so that others can eventually see them.
- Every time a commit is created, it's assigned a unique ID and tracked, along with the time and contributor.

### Describe branching

A series of linked commits that allow developers to work independently on and then later merge into the default branch.

### Define a remote in Git terminology

A named reference to another Git repository. 

### Describe the GitHub flow

- Create a branch
- Make changes
- Create a pull request
- Address review comments
- Merge pull request
- Delete the branch